now Korra the son of is huh
the son of Kohath the son of levi with
Dathan and abiram the sons of Eliab and
on the son of pilla 'the sons of Reuben
took men and they rose up before Moses
with some of the children of Israel 250
leaders of the congregation
representatives of the congregation men
of renown they gather together against
Moses and Aaron and said to them you
take too much upon yourselves for all
the congregation is holy every one of
them and the Lord is among them why then
do you exalt yourselves above the
Assembly of the Lord so when Moses heard
it he fell on his face and he spoke to
Khoda and all his company
tomorrow morning the Lord will show who
is his and who is holy and will cause
him to come near to him that one whom he
chooses he will cause to come near to
him do this
take sensors Cora and all your company
put fire in them and put incense in them
before the Lord tomorrow and it shall be
that the man whom the Lord chooses is
the Holy One you take too much upon
yourselves you sons of Levi but Moses
said Takota here now you sons of Levi is
it a small thing to you that the God of
Israel have separated you from the
congregation of Israel to bring you
nearer to himself to do the work of the
tabernacle of the Lord and to stand
before the congregation to serve them
and that he has brought you nearer to
himself you and all your brethren the
sons of Levi with you and our priesthood
and so therefore you and all your
company are gathered together against
the Lord and what is Aaron that you
complain against him and Moses sent to
call Dathan and abiram the sons of Eliab
but they said we will not come up is it
a small thing that you brought us up out
of the land flowing with milk and honey
to kill us in the wilderness that you
should keep acting like a prince over us
moreover you have not brought us into a
land flowing with milk and honey nor
given us inheritance of fields and
vineyards will you put out the eyes of
these men we will not come up when Moses
was very angry and said to the Lord do
not respect their offering I have not
taken one donkey from them
nor have I hurt one of them and Moses
said to Cora tomorrow you and all your
company be present before the Lord you
and they as well as Aaron let each take
his censer and put incense in it and
each of you bring his censer before the
Lord
250 sensors both you and Aaron each with
his sensor so every man took his censer
and put fire in it made incense on it
and stood at the door of the tabernacle
of meeting with Moses and Aaron
and Cora gathered all the congregation
against them at the door of the
tabernacle of meeting then the glory of
the Lord appeared to all the
congregation and the Lord spoke to Moses
and Aaron separate yourselves from among
this congregation that I may consume
them in a moment then they fell on their
faces and said O God the God of the
spirits of all flesh shall one man sin
and you be angry with all the
congregation so the Lord spoke to Moses
speak to the congregation saying get
away from the tents of Korah Dathan and
abiram
and Moses rose and went to date them and
abided and the elders of Israel followed
him and he spoke to the congregation
depart now from the tents of these
wicked men touch nothing of theirs lest
you be consumed in all their sins so
they got away from around the tents of
Korah Dathan and abiram and Dathan and
abiram came out and stood at the door of
their tents with their wives their sons
and their little truth
and Moses said by this you shall know
that the Lord has sent me to do all
these works for I have not done them of
my own will if these men die naturally
like all men or if they are visited by
the common fate of all men then the Lord
has not sent me but if the Lord creates
a new thing and the earth opens its
mouth and swallows them up with all that
belongs to them and they go down alive
into the pit then you will understand
that these men have rejected the Lord
now it came to pass as he finished
speaking all these words that the ground
split apart under them the earth opened
its mouth and swallowed them up with
their households and all the men with
Kerra with all their goods so they and
all those with them went down alive into
the pit the earth closed over them and
they perished from a muddy ascent when
all Israel who were around them fled at
their cry for they said lest the earth
swallow us up also and a fire came out
from the Lord and consumed the two
hundred and fifty men who were offering
incense then the Lord spoke to Moses
till Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest
to pick up the sensor's out of the blaze
for they are holy and scatter the fire
some distance away the sensors of these
men who sinned against their own Souls
let them be made into a hammered plates
as a covering for the altar because they
presented them before the Lord therefore
they are holy and they shall be assigned
to the children of Israel so Eleazar the
priest took the bronze census which
those who were burned after presented
and they were hammered out as a covering
on the altar to be a memorial to the
children of Israel that no outsider who
is not a descendant of Aaron should come
near to offer incense before the Lord
that he might not become like Korah and
his companions just as the Lord had said
to him through Moses on the next day all
the congregation of the children of
Israel complained against Moses and
Aaron you have killed the people of the
Lord now it happened when the
congregation had gathered against Moses
and Aaron that they turned toward the
tabernacle of meeting
the cloud covered it and the glory of
the Lord appeared then Moses and Aaron
came before the tabernacle of meeting
and the Lord spoke to Moses get away
from among this congregation that I may
consume them in a moment and they fell
on their faces
so Moses said to Aaron take a censer and
put fire in it from the altar for
incense on it and take it quickly to the
congregation and make atonement for them
for wrath has gone out from the Lord the
plate has begun then Aaron took it as
Moses commanded and ran into the midst
of the assembly and already the plague
had begun among the people so he put in
the incense and made a tournament for
the people and he stood between the dead
and the living
so the plague was stopped
while those who died in the plague were
14700 besides those who died in the coda
incident so Aaron returned to Moses at
the door of the tabernacle of meeting
for the play had stopped
[Music]